Swap Indexes API (#192)
meilisearch/specifications: text/0191-swap-indexes-api.md

4. `indexB` documents, settings and tasks are swapped with `indexA`.
5. Search clients search on the updated `indexA` without experiencing any downtime.

### 3.2. Deploying Multiple New Indexes Versions

The swap API supports multiple swap operations in an atomic fashion.

This means that for a search experience built using multiple indexes, Meilisearch is able to deploy all changes at once and thus clients will access the new version of all indexes at once without any downtime.

There is no need to deploy each new version of indexes one by one.

### 3.3. Enqueued Tasks After A Swap Operation Creation

Tasks enqueued after an `indexSwap` task creation date do not have their `indexUid` modified when the `indexSwap` will succeed. That is, if they are enqueued on `indexA`, they will run on the new version of `indexA`.

### 3.4. API Endpoints Definition

#### 3.4.1. `POST` - `/swap-indexes`

Send one or many indexes swap operation at once.

##### 3.4.1.1. Payload definition

The payload body expects an array of JSON objects representing swap operations.

```json
[
    {
        "indexes": ["indexA", "indexA_new"]
    },
    {
        "indexes": ["indexB", "indexB_new"]
    }
]
```

> 💡 In the given example, two swap operations will occurs atomically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 In the given example, two swap operations will occur at the same time and atomically.
```

# Swap Indexes API

## 1. Summary

The swap indexes API allows to atomically deploy several new versions of indexes without any downtime for the search clients.

## 2. Motivation

It's critical to deploy a new version of an index without any downtimes to the search clients. This capability improves the development experience by allowing Meilisearch to better fit into their workflow.

## 3. Functional Specification

> ### 3.1. 0 dowtime deployment workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3.1. 0 downtime deployment workflow
```

> A user has big changes to make on an index. It could be important document schema or index settings changes.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I get the sentences here, do you mean to have 0 downtime?

The zero-downtimes deployment looks like this:

1. Search clients search on `indexA`.
2. The developer builds a new index `indexB` representing the new index version to deploy to the search clients.
3. When `indexB` is built and ready to be deployed, the developer sends an indexes swap request to Meilisearch for `indexA` and `indexB`.
4. `indexB` documents, settings and tasks are swapped with `indexA`.
5. Search clients search on the updated `indexA` without experiencing any downtime.

### 3.2. Deploying Multiple New Indexes Versions

The swap API supports multiple swap operations in an atomic fashion.

This means that for a search experience built using multiple indexes, Meilisearch is able to deploy all changes at once and thus clients will access the new version of all indexes at once without any downtime.

There is no need to deploy each new version of indexes one by one.

> ### 3.3. Enqueud Tasks After A Swap Operation Creation

Reviewer 3: tiny typo: `Enqueued`

- 🔴 Omitting Content-Type header returns a [missing_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending an empty Content-Type returns an [invalid_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending a different Content-Type than `application/json` returns an [invalid_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending an empty payload returns a [missing_payload](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_payload) error.
- 🔴 Sending an invalid JSON payload returns a [malformed_payload](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#malformed_payload) error.
- 🔴 Sending an `indexes` array not containing **exactly** 2 indexUids for a swap operation object returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

###### 3.4.1.3.2. Asynchronous Errors

- 🔴 Sending indexUids that do not exist within the `indexes` field of a swap operation returns an [index_not_found](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_not_found) error.

> - 🔴 Sending an indexUid more than once in the request payload returns a [duplicate_index_found](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#duplicate_index_found) error.

Reviewer 3: This is a **synchronous** error

## 4. Technical Details

### 4.1. Swapping Data

When indexes are swapped their data is exchanged. It concerns:

- The documents
- The settings
- The tasks history

>     - `indexUid` field of tasks having been created before the `indexSwap` task `created_at` are updated to keep a practicable history. That is, it's possible to know why an index is in a given point in time state even if it has been swapped because it keeps the task history.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a newline is needed or something but I don't get the sentence

Reviewer 3: It would be good to explicitly say how they are updated. The implemented behaviour is that every mention of `indexA` in tasks that were enqueued before the index swap task is replaced by `indexB`, (and idem for `indexB` -> `indexA`).

Author: Would love a suggestion to replace that part!

Reviewer 2: I let @loiclec make a suggestion because I don't even understand the original idea behind the sentence 😕

Reviewer 4: Hi, 👋 
Just to be clear:
Once swapped, all mentions of `indexA` will be replaced by `indexB` **only for** `enqueued` tasks. All other tasks will show the "original" `indexA` in the `uid` field

Reviewer 3: No it's the opposite. Let's say we have the following tasks:
```
1 succeeded createIndex A
2 succeeded createIndex B
3 enqueued swapIndex A B
4 enqueued addDocuments A
5 enqueued deleteIndex B
```
Then after task 3 (indexSwap) is processed, we have:
```
1 succeeded createIndex B
2 succeeded createIndex A
3 succeeded swapIndex A B
4 enqueued addDocuments A
5 enqueued deleteIndex B
```

Reviewer 3: So the explanation could be something like:
```
An index swap between `index_a `and `index_b` will also replace every mention of `index_a` by `index_b` (and vice-versa) in the task history. Enqueued tasks are left unmodified.  
```

Author: Thanks, @loiclec!

Reviewer 4: Thanks @loiclec! 🙏
